---
title: 'The Unjust God: An Arguement for the Unjust Nature of God'
date: 2023-12-19 14:00:00 +0300
categories: [religion]
tags: [religion]
---

It would be considered exceedingly presumptuous to think of God as unjust. This would be especially true if such a view came from a devout Catholic, of which I am one. Yet, this essay not only affirms that God is unjust, it further proposes that God is unjust *necessarily*. All pursuit of reasoned arguments must conform to the infallible construct of the three laws of logic. To this end, the central proposition of this essay is anchored on the first law of Logic; the law of Identity (S = S). God is unjust. And the unjust nature of God is necessarily inherent.

#### What does it mean to be Unjust?
Merriam-Webster dictionary defines "unjust" as that characterized by injustice. "Injustice" is further defined as the absence of justice while the general application of the word justice is that which conforms to fairness or a standard of correctness. The Biblical standard of the word "justice" is a little problematic to conclusively assign an English equal. Translations, particularly ancient translations, can be very fluid and non-binding. Meaning can be lost in translation. For instance, the English word "pin" can have as many as 20 definitions. It thus becomes an essential prerogative to establish context, which brings proximity to reason when dealing in the eschatological pursuit. It is quite literally, a matter of life and death for the searching soul, that translation must carry historical intentions of their times with infallible acuity.

Greek word "krisis", that is the most used word for the English equivalent "justice", confines itself to a legal circumference.  It explicitly concerns itself with "decision making after weighing a situation". Whether the decision is fair or conforms to a standard of correctness becomes an exclusive luxury whose implication is abstract. We can\'t tell, from the foregoing, whether krisis or justice, has any moral absolutes. In simpler terms, justice is seen to be always delivered as long as a judgment is passed after a review of presented arguments. Whether the justice is good or bad, right or wrong, is of minor consequence. Ironically, the deficiency of this definition is manifest in the contemporary legal realities of our times. Legally binding decisions of the courts, our last resort of civilian recourse for justice, at times receive resounding disapproval from the public.

The world has a general agreement of what "democracy" means. To pursue a narrow definition of the word would force many "democratic" countries to abandon the use of the word altogether, and for obvious reasons. It is this paradoxical malady that the Greek dikaiosune avoids in defining justice. Dikaiosune is a classical Greek word that means “well-ordered” and translates to righteousness or justice. Unfortunately, the choice of whether to translate the word as "righteousness" or "justice" is left to the mercies of the translators of the different versions of the Bible. The use of the word in the Bible (Mathew 6:33, Romans 14:17) always conforms to the duality of these two words. To this extent, the righteousness or justice of God is never doubt.

This essay focuses on the first definition of justice, the culmination of a judgment after consideration of facts, and argues that God is unjust. It is in the context of our human understanding of what would be a just judgement that God is seen as unjust. Not only is God unjust, but this unjust nature of God is a good thing. Further, it is my expectation that a public consociation of this definition of justice becomes a common denominator with the readers of this essay.

#### Without an Unjust God Salvation is Impossible
Human beings occupy a special place in creation. We are the only beings on the physical earth with a free will. We are always conscious of our actions, even if we often times find comfort in the folly of deliberately suppressing any thoughts of their implications. Of course this excludes instances in which we may be under any influences that affect the normal functioning of our cognitive faculties. If we were to come before a God who is just, we would expect that all our actions would be weighed and a just judgement delivered. This is what we expect to happen on the day of judgement. It forms the central theme of eschatology. With this reality, salvation becomes impossible as alluded to in Psalm 130:3 “If thou, O Lord, shouldst mark iniquities, who could stand?” Our salvation thus is entirely hinged on an unjust God for a just God would justifiably condemn us to earned condemnation.

A movie I once saw captured this very truth, albeit unintentionally. A discussion ensued as to what makes justice to be *just*. At the time (in the movie), convicted criminals were hanged to death. The substance of the discussion was that what truly made justice *just* was the disillusionment of the hangman at the entire process. A certified hangman was in a discussion with two people, one of whom had been convicted to be hanged by him. Below is an address he was making to the soon-to-be-hanged convict.

> “To me it doesn\'t matter what you did. When I hang you I won\'t get no satisfaction from your death. 
> It\'s my job…
> The man who pulls the lever that breaks your neck, will be a dispassionate man.
> And that dispassion is the very essence of justice.
> For justice delivered without dispassion is always in danger of not being justice.”

It becomes apparent that God does not assume the role of the spectator in our lives, even though this does not always seem so. God is very moved with our happenings, our struggle, our tears. God is very passionate about us. It is why He deals with us unjustly when rendering His justice. The Psalmist answers his question in Psalm 130:4 “But there is forgiveness with thee, that thou mayest be feared”. One of the most quoted verses of the Bible, John 3:16 bears witness to this. For our salvation and that we may not perish, we need only believe in Jesus. This belief, not any of our actions, guarantees eternal life. No acts of omision or commission on our part can guarantee us a place in the Kingdom of God. This is why God sent his only son, Jesus, to die for all our sins, even those we will commit tomorrow, or next year. Salvation is anchored on God dealing with us unjustly by not giving us what we deserve.

#### Job and the Unjust God
Nowhere in the Bible does the unjust nature of God manifests so evidently than in the book of Job. Calamity upon calamity befalls Job and with no justifiable cause. Why would God engage the caprices of the devil at the expense of Job? In God\'s own admission, a righteous man? Here, we see the double-edged nature of God\'s *injustice*. It can offer great reprieve or be the cause of great pain. Job rightfully rebukes his wife and affirms that we should accept both good and folly from God. God even asserts His sovereignty by asking “Who has given to me, that I should repay him?”

We lose the justification of questioning God in bad times. This does not mean we don\'t lament to God, or cry out to him when in distress. By all means our only solace as believers comes through prodding of God\'s will at our deepest crises. Jesus did as much on the cross. Our questioning of God will be more about assuaging our pain in hope for salvation, than it would be about finding answers to the questions themselves. It only solidifies the view that even if we were to receive good from God at our point of utter need, it would not be on merit. It is for this very reason that Job\'s friends are rebuked by God. They fail to acknowledge that indeed there is no justifiable reason as to the calamities befalling Job. God only confirms that there does not need to be one.

#### Conclusion
God is unjust in that He does not requite us of deserved punishment. We receive undeserved rewards from God out of His abundance of grace and pardon for our sins out of His mercy. If God were to deliver judgment on a just scale, no one would merit to enter the Kingdom of heaven. It is thus necessary that God is unjust as the contrary denies us heaven. It is out of the unjust nature of God when dealing with us, that we stand a chance at eternal life in heaven.
