---
title: 'Why is this man blind?'
date: 2024-03-17 09:09:00 +0300
categories: [bible]
tags: [Bible,Jesus]
---

We often times in our lives as Christians experience periods of great trial. Some we overcome, others just seem to linger for longer than we would want. Eventually, they break our silence and we lament to God and ask the all too familiar question, *"why?"*. In some cases, the situation might be so overwhelming that we begin to call to memory past sin, with the attempt to identify a forgotten sin that may have angered God. Surely, this trial has gone on for so long so there\'s definitely some sin, forgotten that I must atone for.

At this point in our trial, we may have our covering and favour from God loosed that we are exposed to public shame. Maybe you are late on rent that you may be forced to move out in a spectacle. It may be a persistent illness that brings you shame. Or periods of lengthy wait for a child. An exhaustive long search for a job, or a spouse. Whatever it is, it may get to a point that it exposes you to outward shame or ridicule. You feel that inasmuch as the trial is difficult, you would have handled it better without the public exposure to shame.

This was the situation of the blind man in `John 9`. The disciples of Jesus, as with their tradition, had been convinced that it was sin that was responsible for the man\'s predicament. So convinced were they that they only sought to know from Jesus whether the sin was of the man\'s own making or from his parents. Jesus\' answer to this question should offer you hope when facing trials especially those that expose you to public shame.

>*<sup>3</sup>Jesus answered "It was not that this man sinned, or his parents <br>but that the works of God might be made manifest in him"*

This should offer you a hope and peace so divine that you smile in the midst of your tribulations. Your public shame and ridicule are a necessary part of your struggle. It may be that you sinned, or your father\'s house sinned against God, but your salvation will come and it will be to publicly glorify God. Keep on with the good fight and hold the faith until the salvation of God and his vindication comes as a bright light. Everyone will see and be amazed how you did it.

>*<sup>31</sup>We know that God does not listen to sinners, but if anyone is a worshiper of God and does his will, <br> God listens to him*

May it be well with you and wait for your vindication whence you will say:

>"One thing I know
>that though I was blind,
>now I see."