---
title: 'Mathew 6:33 is a Beautiful ensnare for Searching Souls'
date: 2024-01-16 13:12:00 +0300
categories: [religion]
tags: [God,Bible]
---

In Mathew 6:33 it is written “But seek first his kingdom and his righteousness, and all these things shall be yours as well.” The “all these things” being referred to from the previous verses are material necessities of human living that bring convenience and ease in daily life. Although they are written as consisting of food, drink and clothing, in contemporary life they can range from rent, employment, spouse, offspring, cars, tuition, health..you get the drift. Essentially, they mostly involve material things. Little wonder why this verse is a favourite among preachers of the Word, even those with more insidious intent. Besides, who wouldn\'t want a high-end luxury vehicle that they can cruise in to church every Sunday to indeed justify the goodness of God?

So, to this pursuit of material things, although in most cases the need might be truly more of an urgent necessity such as rent, Christians set off in search for the Kingdom. And this is where things become interesting. Two things I must bring forth to fully appreciate what happens in this pursuit and why they are important. First, it would be presumptuous for any Christian not to assume that the enemy, the devil, which is satan, is unaware of this verse. Second, it is equally defeatist to assume that God would not, at the minimum, assess the sincerity of our search for His kingdom.

The realization, or lack thereof of these two realities define the outcome of this search for all. The enemy will do everything within his power to derail souls from truly searching. This is why in some cases, some Christians may be materially blessed, eventually, and then fall to sin as a result. Material problems are gone, but they don\'t attend church. Sinning becomes a subconscious second nature. I have been there. Have such people lived to the expectation of Mathew 6:33? Have they sought and found the kingdom of God? As far as reality  goes, they don\'t lack "all these things" and seemingly the burning desire to "seek" is but a dying ember, if it is even existent in the first place. It then becomes clear that seeking God has nothing at all to do with “all these things”. What does it mean really, to search for the kingdom of God while on earth?

This post is not about what the journey in pursuit of the kingdom of God looks like, so I\'ll delve and focus on the second part. Where God tests our sincerity and resolve in seeking His kingdom. Time and again the Bible has reminded us that God looks at the heart of man. God searches out the heart of man. It goes then that those who embark on this journey, will find themselves before God as He searches out their real intention. I don\'t want to pretend to have the vaguest idea what God decides with us eventually, but I suspect those who “truly” search out the Kingdom of God then get ensnared, or rather, freed from the search.

You see, the kingdom of God is so much more than what we would assume. We would think that, and I have been there, if only God would come through in our times of material need, then we would serve Him even more diligently. This might be true. But, truly finding the kingdom of God is such as bliss of unexplainable ecstasy that the material things become trivial. You drive to church in a high-end vehicle, but you do not perceive it. It just doesn\'t move you. You\'ve found more. People wonder how you are so wealthy in material aspects but you seem so unassuming. Or, you go to church, on foot, with the same material burdens of life, but you are so elated at what you “found” that you don\'t even realize you are due for rent. You\'ve found more. People wonder how you are ever smiling and indifferent in the midst of your “problems”. It is the central message in Ecclesiastes. We may seek the kingdom of God, hoping for “all these things”, and by glorious chance, just “find” it.
