---
title: 'The Eve of Meeting the Pharaoh'
date: 2024-02-15 09:32:00 +0300
categories: [religion]
tags: [God,Bible]
---

We well know the story of Joseph in the Bible of how steadfast he held onto his integrity. However, I want to focus on the period of his time when he was in prison. It can be argued that Joseph was in prison well over 12 years after the incident with Potiphar\'s wife landed him there. This period of time must have been very difficult for Joseph mentally. God\'s favour kept him and he found good standing with the prison keeper and this may have given him some reprieve. But in all, it seemed as though he was serving a life sentence with no chance of ever getting out.

Often times we face such situations in life that seem so prolonged that they almost become second nature. We resign to fate and at times and brush off dreams we had as merely superstitious vanity. Plans and visions we had begin to fade and seem only as distant nostalgic longings. I suspect these thoughts might have crossed Joseph\'s mind on the nights he kept vigil. His dreams of eleven stars, including the sun bowing to him would probably be triggers for discomfort within his soul.

A little occurrence goes on in the story of Joseph, as with many others in the Bible, that might go unnoticed. This is what I call the Eve of Meeting the Pharaoh. You see, the chief butler had promised to make known the interpreting gift of Joseph to Pharaoh. One can only imagine the thoughts running through Joseph\'s mind the day the chief butler was released. He might have even began imagining his life of freedom already. It happened to me severally. Once, during my long wait for a job, someone who had intended to offer me an opportunity for work sent me a random message and asked me how much I would be willing to take as salary. We agreed on terms. I began fantasizing how I\'d start with tithing, for surely the Lord had finally shown his Mercy to me. I, who walked in great darkness, had seen a great light. In my mind I paid off my debts, moved houses, changed my daughter schools and upgraded my wardrobe. But the call never came. Anticipation faded into something I had faced inordinate times before, dissappointment.

I imagine this must have been the same for Joseph. As it might be true for most of us. When we think that God has finally hedged us from the trials of the enemy, then, nothing. Silence. Defeat. Again. As I\'m writing this, it has been 2 years and 2 months for me without work. This morning God brought to me the hidden, yet glaring truth that is the Eve of Meeting the Pharaoh. Joseph must have obviously grown disillusioned a few days, or weeks or months after the chief butler\'s release. Pharaohs were very prominent people and one wouldn\'t appear before them without summon. Joseph must have given the chief butler some months. Surely Pharaoh could not have gone two months without imbibing some wine?

Unknown to Joseph, events were taking place in the outside world that he had no idea would change his life. On the Eve of Meeting the Pharaoh, we can only imagine what was going on in Joseph\'s mind. As Pharaoh was dreaming, something must have been going on in Joseph\'s soul for these dreams of Pharaoh had the key to Joseph\'s freedom. To his destiny. He might as well have been sound asleep and took life as he had been accustomed to. After all it had been 2 years since the chief butler had been released and about 17 years of him in slavery. Life didn\'t matter at all. Little did he know that this was in fact the Eve of Meeting the Pharaoh!

Then I thought to myself. With God, we really never know when it might be our Eve of Meeting the Pharaoh. So we should always seek God. Seek him and his strength continually. Things might seem unchanging in our circumstances but we might just be on our Eve of Meeting the Pharaoh.