---
title: 'Why the adversary hates marriage'
date: 2025-11-21 08:31:00 +0300
categories: [bible]
tags: [Marriage]
---
The adversary, satan, is so much against marriage. We see this through the entertainment scene where he has his foothold. There is a consistent outflow of content that undermines monogamous heterosexual relationships in both obvious and some subtle ways. I watch cartoons a lot. I used to enjoy Loud House but stopped watching the day I found out Lincoln\'s friend has gay parents. There is a popular morning radio show in Kenya played in most public transport vehicles in the capital Nairobi. If you analyze the overbearing theme of its popular breakfast hosts, it is a heavily veiled anti-marriage agenda. Everywhere you look, there is just too much negative PR about marriage. The enemy has really invested a lot into this. He hates marriages. And his reasons are very valid too.

We get to see in Genesis 1, where it all begins for man, that God creates man. In verse 27 of Chapter One, he creates man, not Adam, but man. And we see that man/mankind, is not created after their own kind like other creatures, but is created in the image and likeness of God. This man in Genesis 1 embodies the full essence of God, in that he carries both male and female essence of God. This is because man is created in the image and likeness of God, not mankind.

In Genesis 2 we see Jesus now moulding the `male` aspect of man from the man in Genesis 1. In my opinion, with a heavy emphasis on **`my`**, this male man does not fully understand the nature of essence he is carrying. That is why, in my opinion, he gets lonely. This is despite God even bringing into the natural realm all the atmospheric and terrestrial animals to keep him company.

It is then that God decides to physically bring out the `female` man, separating her from the essence of the `male` man and forms woman. This seems to make man happy, and he now feels complete. He was complete initially, only that he could not `feel` it. Why? I have a theory, but that is not the point here.

So you see, this was the first marriage, not a wedding, but marriage. And we see the two, each carrying a certain essence of God, Adam the `male` essence and Eve the `female` essence. This is why, in my view, there are certain aspects of God only males can embody and there are other aspects of God on the female vessel can carry. But when these two join into a union, they become one, fully representing the fullness of the image and likeness of God. This is what Genesis 2:24 means when it says `they become one flesh`.

Jesus makes this same emphasis in Mark 10:6-8.

><sup>6</sup> "But from the beginning of the creation, God ‘made them male and female.’ <sup>7</sup> ‘For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, <sup>8</sup> and the two shall become one flesh’; so then they are no longer two, but one flesh."

The fall of man, in my opinion, necessitates an additional paradigm to this union oneness. This new shift accounts for males and females who fully devote themselves to God in celibacy. But the original union of marriage idea an essence remains.

For this reason. that marriage, when done right, fully embodies the full essence of God, the devil is relentless on attacking the foundation.