---
title: 'These things are too marvellous for me'
date: 2025-06-07 08:55:00 +0300
categories: [bible]
tags: [God,Bible,Jesus]
---
The knowledge of God is too wonderful for our human mental realities to comprehend. There are things which at first sight seem obvious and simple, but upon revelation by the spirit we realize we were blind all along.

G.K. Chesterson captured this phenomenon aptly.

> “There is a law written in the darkest of the Books of Life, and it is this: If you look at a thing nine hundred and ninety-nine times, you are perfectly safe; if you look at it the thousandth time, you are in frightful danger of seeing it for the first time.”


*`In the beginning there was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.`* For believers, this is a fairly straightforward reality. The **Word** referred here is Jesus. And to the best of my understanding, the passage simply means Jesus was there with God in the beginning.  Simple.

And then this morning in my Bible reading, and I don’t want to claim any sort of deeper understanding of this myself, those words spoke to me differently. Before I explain, I want to bring to focus a concept brought out in one of the most compelling apologetic I have read that is delivered with divine acuity. In their captivating `The Lord of Non-Contradiction: An Argument for God from Logic`, Anderson and Welty bring about a very interesting perspective about thoughts. Without delving into the abstract construction of their argument, they essentially necessitate that for physical things to have meaning, they must have emerged from thoughts, and only a mind has the power to direct thoughts. And lately I have been seeing this reality about “thoughts are things” everywhere in my physical surroundings. There is not a single thing in the physical that is not birthed from thoughts. But I digress.

God created everything by the power of the Word of his mouth. `“Let there be…”` And this is where this becomes a bit complicated for our human minds to process. Those words are Jesus. Jesus is the Spoken word of God. When God speaks, those Words are Jesus himself. God creates by the use of his Word ie Jesus. This is what John 1:3 means when it says ***“all things were made through him, and without him was not anything made that was made”***  and this Word became ***“flesh and dwelt among us” (John 1:14)***.

I know this is too heavenly for us to process. We live in the natural. The physical. Assigning non-physical entities such as words, or the Word, physical dimensions is knowledge and understanding beyond our physical realm. The opening chapter of Hebrew says that God spoke to the men of old in various ways, but in the last days he has spoken to us through a Son ***“through whom also he created the world.”*** &nbsp;Now if you read again all the instances where Jesus says him and the Father are one, or if we have seen him we have seen the Father, they would make better sense. I suspect this view informs the perspective that it is actually Jesus himself who moulded man in Genesis 2 after God had spoken the “Let us…” in Genesis 1. God the Father acknowledges Jesus role in *‘physically’* making the heavens and the earth in `Hebrews 1.`

><sup>10</sup> *And,<br>"Thou, Lord, didst found the earth in the beginning, and the heavens are the work of thy hands;"*

This is why Jesus speaks in the first person "I" when talking to Hagar and Gideon in the Old Testament.

It is thus why we ask for our petitions through the name of Jesus since by the will of God, it is he who will grant us our requests since God cannot go against his **Word**. `“For to what angel did God ever say…..”`

Such knowledge is too wonderful for me; it is high, I cannot attain it.