---
title: "A perspective on the gods of Psalm 82"
date: 2026-02-15 16:12:00 +0300
categories: [bible]
tags: [Pslam]
---
Psalm 82 is one of the scriptures in the bible that has elicited quite a lot of theological interest. Of particular focus is the reference made to ***gods*** in verse 6. The whole chapter really packs quite a very divine scholarly burden with events occurring in the spiritual. In this writing I specifically want to focus on one aspect of this Psalm. Who are the gods mentioned in verse 6?

Here is verse 6 and 7:

><sup>6</sup> *I say,<br>"You are gods,<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;children of the Most High, all<br> &nbsp; &nbsp;of you;   
<sup>7</sup> nevertheless, you shall die like<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;mortals,<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;and fall like any prince."*

Two central ideas have formed around these ***gods***. One is that they are human beings. This is usually referenced to Jesus quoting Psalm 82 when he rebukes the Jews in John 10:34;

><sup>34</sup> Jesus answered, 'Is it not written in your law, "I said, you are gods"? <sup>35</sup> If those to whom the word of God came were called ***gods*** - and the scripture cannot be annulled- <sup>36</sup> can you say that the one whom the Father has sanctified and sent into the world is blaspheming because I said,"I am God's son"?'

We know that the man Jesus had divinity in him and thus this verse still does to give us conclusive implications of Jesus' words.

The other concept is that these ***gods*** are angelic beings since we see them in charge over the affairs of men. The contention God has with them in Psalm 82 is that they have failed in their duties and thus will `die like mortals`, implying their supernatural nature. The concept of angelic guardianship over the affairs of men is reinforced in Deuteronomy 32:8 where God divides human group boundaries and assigns them each a ***god*** to oversee them, since the boundaries are congruent with the numbering of the ***gods***. There are some bible translations that render the last part of the Deuteronomy 32:8 as ***Israelites***, but the most accurate translation is ***gods*** or ***children of God***.

> <sup>8</sup> When the Most High apportioned<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;the nations,<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;when he divided humankind,<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;he fixed the boundaries of the<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;peoples<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;according to the number of the<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;***gods***

In other books of the bible we see angelic princes standing over nations such as the prince of Persia and prince of Greece in Daniel. Fallen Lucifer had attempted to raise his throne over the other celestial thrones in his rank in Isaiah 14:13.

Both sides of the debate as to whether the entities being addressed in Psalm 82 are human beings or celestial creatures have very solid propositions.

My perspective on this is that the ***gods*** in Psalm 82 are both human beings as well as angelic beings. These two form part of the divine council. The human ***gods*** have supernatural upgrade from God's grace.

There are men in whose walk with God they are raised to the stature that makes them superhuman, due to lack of a better word. They become ***gods***. We see men like Enoch having being accounted as not tasting death. Elijah likewise does not die the death of mortals, yet he was human. Jesus hints at this in John 10:35. In exposition of Psalm 82, Jesus confirms that indeed the Psalm is talking about prophets,partly (my emphasis), since it is to prophets that the word of God came to.

I propose that there is a divine council in which such ***god men*** are allowed to sit among other celestial beings. Elijah and Moses seem to inform Jesus of some kind of decision that had been reached at. (This is purely my opinion). We also see Zechariah (Zechariah 3:1-5) as part of a council, and he even gives his counsel that a clean turban should be placed on Joshua's head, a suggestion which is acted upon. Joshua was facing judgment before the council.

In these `divine councils`, the ***god men*** sit with angelic beings to offer certain judgments in accordance with God's expectations and will. The judgment in Psalm 82 is thus passed on the council members, both ***god men*** and the angelic hosts. It is their failure in administering justice that God seems to revert ***god men*** back to their human status and thus they will die like mortals. The angelic council members will instead ***fall like any prince***, consistent with the fall of other rebellious angels (again, my view).